---
title: Delegation Criteria
description: Set of criteria to ensure fair and efficient distribution of rewards
---

Validators earn points based on various criteria, designed to encourage diverse contributions:

- **Uptime score**: (over period of 3 months before epoch start). Less than 98% will result in 0 points otherwise (1 - (1 - Uptime / 100) / 0.02) * 1000 points. Max 1000 points.
- **Ecosystem Participation score**: (Social media, Telegram, Discord, but also writing documentation, guides, posts ect.) decided by the Bitsong Delegation DAO, Max 2000 points.
- **Core development score**: evaluated by the Bitsong Delegation DAO. Max 3000 points
- **Non-core development score**: evaluated by the Bitsong Delegation DAO. Max 2500 points
- **Running relayers with a specific uptime score**: evaluated by the Bitsong Delegation DAO. Max 2000 points
- **Running an archive node with a specific uptime score**. SCORE: 98% uptime or less will result in 0 points otherwise (1 - (1 - Uptime / 100) / 0.02) * 2500 points. Max 2500 points.
- **Running a public rpc/api with a specific uptime score**. SCORE: 98% uptime or less will result in 0 points otherwise (1 - (1 - Uptime / 100) / 0.02) * 1000 points. Max 1000 points
- **Commission restake score** (what percentage is the validator committed to self delegate off his gained commission during the epoch). SCORE: (Percentage self staked * 1000 points) / 100 . Max 1000 points
- **Self delegation score** (what is the validators ratio between self stake and voting power). : 0.5% or less will result in 0 points. Furthermore, at least 500 BTSG must be staked to be eligible for the self stake.
((Self stake / Voting power) * 1000 points) / 100. Max 1000 points

<u>Total Maximum Points: 16,000 points</u>

- The "**Commission restake score**" will not be considered in this Epoch and will be introduced in the next one (Epoch #4). 

- **Uptime Score and Self delegation score** will be calculated with on-chain data using the following script.

- For the **Public RPC/API, Relayers and Archive nodes criteria**, will be assigned max score due to lack of data.

- The **qualitative criteria** such as “Ecosystem Participation score” will be evaluated as an average of the scores assigned by each member of the Delegation DAO, based on links and contents provided in the application form.

## Additional Information

- **Uptime Reference**: 98% uptime equals approximately 7 days of downtime per year.
- **Third-Party Consultation**: The DAO may consult third parties for evaluation if necessary.
- **Self-Delegation Verification**: One external address can be included and manually verified by the Delegation DAO. Can be added in the application form.

## Points Multiplier

A multiplier is applied based on the validator's current voting power (excluding Bitsong DP) ranging from 0.01x to 1x. The lowest ranked validator receives a 1x multiplier, and the highest ranked receives a 0.01x multiplier.

## Assigned Delegation Based on Points

Validators' total points (after applying multipliers) determine their share of the Bitsong delegation. The share is proportional to their score relative to the total score of all participants.